[DOCU-3062] Composite runtime groups (#5762)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/runtime-manager/composite-runtime-groups/index.md

---
title: Composite Runtime Groups
content_type: explanation
badge: enterprise
---

A composite runtime group is a read-only group that combines configuration from
its members, which are standard runtime groups. All of the standard runtime groups within a 
composite runtime group share the same cluster of runtime instances. 

![Standard runtime group](/assets/images/docs/konnect/konnect-standard-rg.svg)
> _**Figure 1:** In a standard runtime group setup, each team configures and manages their own runtime instances._
_For example, Team Blue configures Runtime Group Blue, which then uses a set of runtime instances that only run Blue configuration._

![Composite runtime group](/assets/images/docs/konnect/konnect-composite-rg.svg)
> _**Figure 2:** In a composite runtime group setup, each team still configures their own runtime groups, but the runtime instances are shared._
_For example, Team Blue configures Runtime Group Blue, which is then combined with the configuration from Team Green and Team Yellow._

> _The runtime instances in the cluster use the combined configuration._

Reviewer: suggestion: We should explain what the green runtime group is doing in this diagram since Team Green is not present. The story we are telling here is of a federated platform administrator model where a central platform team administers the composite runtime group while individual service teams administer their own member runtime group. The green runtime group represents a way for a central platform team to configure global plugins on all the configuration running in the composite runtime group. (Unsure if we want to go into this detail in a caption though, your choice)

Author: I was already thinking that I might turn this into a regular paragraph description instead of just a caption. Makes it flow better. I'll add in this info.

> A composite runtime group can contain up to 256 runtime groups. 
> You can add or remove up to 50 child runtime groups at a time.
> 
> Each standard group can have up to 5 parent composite runtime groups.

Reviewer: question: Are we using parent/child terminology? If not, I suggest:

```suggestion
A composite runtime group can contain up to 256 runtime groups. 
You can add or remove up to 50 member runtime groups at a time.

Each standard group be a member of no more than 5 composite runtime groups.
```

## Runtime instances 

> In a composite runtime group, the composite configuration from all child runtime groups is pushed to each runtime instance.

Reviewer: question: Are we using parent/child terminology? If not, I suggest:
```suggestion
In a composite runtime group, the composite configuration from all member runtime groups is pushed to each runtime instance.
```

Key | Key set | By ID
Vault | Runtime group | By Runtime group
deGraphQL route | Service | By ID
GraphQL Rate Limiting cost decoration | Service | By ID

The {{site.base_gateway}} resource associated with an entity must be part of the same standard runtime group as the entity.

Entity-specific behavior exceptions:
* **Consumers**: A consumer of a standard runtime group becomes a consumer of the composite runtime group once the originating group becomes a member of the composite runtime group.
The authentication credentials of a consumer in a standard runtime group become valid credentials of the composite runtime group.
The ID of a consumer from one composite runtime group member can't be used in authorization for another composite runtime group member.

* **Consumer groups**: Only consumers from the same runtime group can be added to a consumer group.
Consumer groups names in the Rate Limiting Advanced plugin can reference group names from other composite runtime group members.

* **Global plugins**: A plugin that is globally scoped in the standard runtime group remains globally scoped in the composite runtime group. 
This plugin will affect the entire composite runtime group.

> Multiple instances of the same global plugin can be combined into the composite runtime group. (for example, two instances of the Rate Limiting plugin).

Reviewer: suggestion: This should be corrected to:
```suggestion
For example, two instances of the Rate Limiting plugin cannot be installed in the composite runtime group.
```

A composite runtime group can contain up to 256 runtime groups. 
You can add or remove up to 50 member runtime groups at a time.

Each standard group can be a member of no more than 5 composite runtime groups.

## Runtime instances 

In a composite runtime group, the composite configuration from all member runtime groups is pushed to each runtime instance.

A runtime instance (also known as a {{site.base_gateway}} data plane node) can only connect to a single runtime group in a cluster.
This means that in a composite runtime group, all runtime instances must be managed from the composite group itself. 
Members of a composite group can't have their own runtime instances. 

When adding a standard group to a composite, make sure it has no connected runtime instances.

The runtime instances of a composite runtime group are not visible to a member runtime group.

## Configuring core entities

There are some special cases and behaviors to note for core entities in a composite runtime group.

All entities in a composite runtime group must have unique names and IDs. 
For example, if two members of a composite runtime group both have a service named `example_service`, 

> it will cause an [invariance](/konnect/runtime-manager/composite-runtime-groups/invariances/) which must be resolved to restore function.

Reviewer 2: We need to replace "invariance" with "conflict"

> it will cause an [invariance](/konnect/runtime-manager/composite-runtime-groups/invariances/) which must be resolved to restore function.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
it will cause a [conflict](/konnect/runtime-manager/composite-runtime-groups/conflicts/) which must be resolved to restore function.
```

* **Vaults**: The prefix of each Vault must be unique.
Once a Vault from a standard runtime group becomes part of a composite runtime group, it becomes available to the whole composite runtime group.
An entity field in a standard runtime group can successfully reference a secret in a Vault from another standard runtime group, now both part of the composite runtime group.

## Limitations

A composite runtime group composition will be applied even if the configurations of the standard runtime groups are not combined successfully. 
This means that even if there is some confict and the member groups weren't merged successfully, a composite runtime group still gets created.

Composite runtime groups are read-only (with some exceptions), so configuration modifications must be made via a member standard runtime group. 

The following are exceptions to the read-only rule:
* A runtime instance client certificate can be generated in the UI or uploaded to a composite runtime group.
* Runtime instances can be connected to a composite runtime group, however members of a composite runtime group cannot have any runtime instances connected to them.

> Kong Ingress Controller runtime groups can't be part of a composite runtime group.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Kong Ingress Controller runtime groups can't be part of a composite runtime group.

One composite runtime group cannot be a member of another composite runtime group. 
```

Analytics for a composite runtime group are only available at the composite level. 
Member standard runtime groups have no individual analytics reporting.

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we also add a limitation that conflict detection happens in a CRG only after you have added a runtime instance to the CRG? Thanks!

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Conflict detection in a composite runtime group happens only after you have added a runtime instance to the composite runtime group.
```

Key | Key set | By ID
Vault | Runtime group | By Runtime group
deGraphQL route | Service | By ID
GraphQL Rate Limiting cost decoration | Service | By ID

The {{site.base_gateway}} resource associated with an entity must be part of the same standard runtime group as the entity.

Entity-specific behavior exceptions:
* **Consumers**: A consumer of a standard runtime group becomes a consumer of the composite runtime group once the originating group becomes a member of the composite runtime group.
The authentication credentials of a consumer in a standard runtime group become valid credentials of the composite runtime group.
The ID of a consumer from one composite runtime group member can't be used in authorization for another composite runtime group member.

* **Consumer groups**: Only consumers from the same runtime group can be added to a consumer group.
Consumer groups names in the Rate Limiting Advanced plugin can reference group names from other composite runtime group members.

* **Global plugins**: A plugin that is globally scoped in the standard runtime group remains globally scoped in the composite runtime group. 
This plugin will affect the entire composite runtime group.

> For example, two instances of the Rate Limiting plugin cannot be installed in the composite runtime group.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, two instances of the Rate Limiting plugin cannot be installed in the composite runtime group.

If you want to limit which users can apply global plugins, add all global plugins into a single runtime group, and then grant access to only your limited set of users. If any other member runtime groups add a global plugin to their configuration, a conflict will result and prevent the changed configuration from being applied. 
```

![Composite runtime group](/assets/images/docs/konnect/konnect-composite-rg.svg)
> _**Figure 2:** In a composite runtime group setup, each team still configures their own runtime groups, but the runtime instances are shared. For example, Team Blue configures Runtime Group Blue, which is then combined with the configuration from Team Green and Team Yellow. The runtime instances in the cluster use the combined configuration._

A composite runtime group can contain up to 256 runtime groups. 
Each standard group can have up to 5 parent composite runtime groups.

## Limitations

A composite runtime group composition will be applied even if the configurations of the standard runtime groups are not combined successfully. This means that if due to some conflict the config of standard runtime groups cannot be merged successfully, a composite runtime group will still be created.
A composite runtime group is a read-only runtime group (exceptions listed below), so configuration modifications must be made via a member standard runtime group. 

> A runtime instance client certificate can be generated in the UI or uploaded to a composite runtime group

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A runtime instance client certificate can be generated in the UI or uploaded to a composite runtime group.
```

Consumer | ACL group | By string
Consumer groups | Plugin | By string
Plugin (Non-Global) | Service, route, consumer | By ID
Global plugin | Runtime Group | By Runtime group
Key | Key set | By ID
Vault | Runtime group | By Runtime group
deGraphQL route | Service | By ID
GraphQL Rate Limiting cost decoration | Service | By ID

The {{site.base_gateway}} resource associated with an entity must be part of the same standard runtime group as the entity.

Entity-specific behavior exceptions:
* **Consumers**: A consumer of a standard runtime group becomes a consumer of the composite runtime group once the originating group becomes a member of the composite runtime group.
The authentication credentials of a consumer in a standard runtime group become valid credentials of the composite runtime group.
The ID of a consumer from one composite runtime group member can't be used in authorization for another composite runtime group member.

* **Consumer groups**: Only consumers from the same runtime group can be added to a consumer group.
Consumer groups names in the Rate Limiting Advanced plugin can reference group names from other composite runtime group members.

> * **Global plugins**: A plugin that is globally scoped in the standard runtime group remains globally scoped in the composite runtime group. 
> This plugin will affect the entire composite runtime group.
> For example, two instances of the Rate Limiting plugin cannot be installed in the composite runtime group.
> 
> If you want to limit which users can apply global plugins, add all global plugins into a single runtime group, and then grant access to only your limited set of users. If any other member runtime groups add a global plugin to their configuration, a conflict will result and prevent the changed configuration from being applied. 
> 
> * **Vaults**: The prefix of each Vault must be unique.
> Once a Vault from a standard runtime group becomes part of a composite runtime group, it becomes available to the whole composite runtime group.
> An entity field in a standard runtime group can successfully reference a secret in a Vault from another standard runtime group, now both part of the composite runtime group.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Vaults**: The prefix of each Vault must be unique.
Once a Vault from a standard runtime group becomes part of a composite runtime group, it becomes available to the whole composite runtime group.
An entity field in a standard runtime group can successfully reference a secret in a Vault from another standard runtime group, now both part of the composite runtime group.
* **Global plugins**: A plugin that is globally scoped in the standard runtime group remains globally scoped in the composite runtime group. 
This plugin will affect the entire composite runtime group.
For example, two instances of the Rate Limiting plugin cannot be installed in the composite runtime group.

{:.note}
> **Note:** If you want to limit which users can apply global plugins, add all global plugins into a single runtime group, and then grant access to only your limited set of users. If any other member runtime groups add a global plugin to their configuration, a conflict will result and prevent the changed configuration from being applied.
```
